The subject
that has been placed before you today
is most fascinating and absorbing:
Kundalini and Jesus Christ, Lord Jesus Christ. For ordinary,
common people this is something entirely new,
and till this day no one has ever drawn any
connection between the two in this manner.
The reason for this
is that whenever flowers have blossomed
upon the tree of Dharma,
they have spread their fragrance through many provinces,
many countries, and many languages.
But what relationship they bore to one another —
that only the tree itself can know.
Wherever they blossomed, wherever their fragrance spread,
the people there never truly accepted them. So how, then,
could others ever know or understand
that these flowers all bloom upon one and the same tree?
Now I am speaking to you
from that direction
to which you
have not yet been brought.
Once you reach there, you will understand My words very easily. For at present
you have no way of knowing whether what I am saying is true or untrue;
you possess no proof of it.
How will you know whether what I say is true or false?
The way to know it is this — and the difficulty is that
you have not yet learned to discover your own meaning.
You are not yet at that
level where you have become connected with the Truth.
For this very reason you cannot tell whether a thing is true or false,
whether it is mere legend or something fashioned by the mind.
Those who, as we say, have become realized —
they can come to know fully which thing is true and which is false.
Because of the vibrations that flow from their
hands — the experiment we conducted here yesterday,
when these vibrations began to flow
from the hands of so many people —
if you observe and weigh this carefully, you
will understand that what I am telling you is the complete Truth.
Christians know of Jesus Christ only
through the Bible, which is a most profound book. Its depth is so great that,
being unable to grasp its meaning,
these people make all sorts of attempts at interpretation.
For instance, it is written in the Bible, "I
will appear before you like tongues of flames." They cannot give the
meaning of this. They imagine that when God appears before them,
such flames will come pouring out of Him. But that is not its meaning.
Its meaning is this: I shall become visible to you in the Sahasrara.
It is a description of the Sahasrara.
The Kundalini is described in many ways in the Bible.
I can give you countless quotations from it.
Jesus Christ has said, "Those who are not against Me are with Me"
— those who are not in opposition to Me are with Me.
If you go and ask the Christians who these people are, they do not know.
They have made it out
that Jesus Christ said, "I am the path, I am the door"
— I am the way and I am the door.
But He did not say, "I am the destination" —
He never said that He was the goal. If He said,
"I am the way and I am the door," then the destination must
be something beyond. Even after speaking in such profound language,
the wicked people of that time —
within four years, they let Him live only four years —
within four years they nailed Him upon the cross.
And even today, those who believe in Him
and say that they follow His religion go on, every single day, sacrificing all that
He truly stood for.
As I told you yesterday, the Hindus are just as foolish, and so are the Muslims,
and so are the Christians.
About this Jesus Christ — if you could ever read the Devi Bhagavata,
you would discover there
that Shri Radha created Him out of Her own inner strength,
and gave Him the name Mahavishnu.
She made it in two parts — She formed it as an egg-shape.
The base of this egg-shape is Shri Ganesha.
It is Shri Ganesha who is fundamentally
the power of Jesus Christ.
And the other part of the egg-shape — the one we call Shadanana, Shanmukhanana —
that is called Kartikeya.
The very life-breath within this whole egg is Jesus Christ.
The complete Brahma tattwa, the Omkara — that itself is Jesus Christ.
The entire existence of the Kundalini is, one may say, because of Him.
And it is He who is seated at the very base of the Kundalini.
Shri Radha gave Him birth.
You will come to know this if you read the Devi Purana.
But where are our modern people of today ready to read Markandeya!
You will not find a seer like Markandeya however much you may search.
He has described the most subtle, intricate things
about the Devi — what the marks of the Devi are,
how the Devi dresses, what the Devi delights in, how She is, Her
ways and bearing, Her nature. Sometimes one is
filled with wonder at how he came to know so much.
But our modern people of today,
educated in English learning, are not even willing
to accept that there exists in this world such
a thing as the Devi, or such a thing as divine power.
Although today the English are turning in this direction,
our Indians are still being very great Englishmen. I say many times that,
leaving aside the country of the English themselves,
there are more Englishmen here in our India. I think
very few among you would have read the Markandeya Purana.
But if you read in it the establishment of Mahavishnu —
if you give your attention to that — you will understand that
this whole thing is none other than a description of Christ,
of the Christ.
Shri Radha created Him by Her own power, which is the power of Mahalakshmi.
And His mother, who was Mary, was none other than
— you should simply understand this directly — Shri Radha Herself.
It was Shri Radha Herself, in person, who gave birth to Him.
Radha — "Ra" means energy, Shakti; and
"dha" means the one who holds and sustains it.
She who held the power within Herself, She is Radha. This Radha is a form
of Mahalakshmi. Shri Radha incarnated upon this earth.
She who was earlier Shri Sita became Shri Radha.
And it was Shri Radha who took Shri Ganesha into Her lap — because
Shri Radha is the Incarnation of Mahalakshmi,
and Shri Ganesha had been created by Mahakali,
in the form of Gauri — She took Him into Her lap, and giving Him this special form,
She made Him Krishta. Now this word "Krishta" too comes from Krishna,
because His father is Shri Krishna;
that is why He was called Krishta. This is something to be understood very deeply.
And His name Jesus was created in this way too:
the thought came to Shri Radha that the name Yashoda had never appeared
anywhere until now. Yashoda — "yash" meaning fame and "de" meaning
to give, the one who gives fame, and so Yashoda.
But if we look here in our own country,
He is called Yeshu and Jeshu, in short form.
If the name Yashoda is used in U.P.
and such places, it is shortened to Jasu. That very name, Jasu,
is what She gave to Him. In this way the name Jesus Christ came into being.
Now Hindu people feel that Jesus Christ has, after all, become one of our own.
But are you even Hindu? You are not even really Indian.
And Hindutva does not mean to quarrel over some thing —
that is not Hindutva at all.
Hindutva is understood to belong to the worshippers of Shakti.
Only those who are flooded with Shakti, who are
cultured and sanctified by Shakti, are to be regarded as Hindus.
Those within whom the Shakti has not yet been
awakened cannot be regarded as Hindus.
In this way you can understand that Jesus Christ is a very great Incarnation,
created by Shri Radha,
from the time of Vaikuntha.
It is described of Him that Shri Radha created Him.
Out of that, He was then divided into two parts.
One part She left just as it was, which was the part of Shri Ganesha.
And the other part She gave a special form —
that egg She gave the form of a child.
Then this child kept weeping for many years.
He remembered his father.
When his father saw him — that is, when Krishna, Shri Krishna, saw him —
He granted him many boons.
One of these boons is this: "You shall sit higher than Me."
See, our Vishuddhi chakra is here,
and our Agnya chakra is here.
But in the brain, the Vishuddhi chakra is here.
The seat of the Vishuddhi chakra inside the brain is here.
Yet in terms of the chakras,
Shri Krishna's chakra is this one, and
above it, here, is the Agnya chakra,
where Jesus Christ is seated.
The second thing He said was: "You shall remain the foundation of the entire world."
The third thing He said was: "Whatever I
receive in My Puja, a sixteenth part of it already goes to you first."
In this way, after granting many boons, the Virata, Shri Krishna,
gave Him permission to take incarnation in this world.
When Jesus Christ speaks of his father, He is speaking of Krishna,
He is speaking of the Virata.
He always spoke of his father, because his father
had not incarnated together with him in this world.
His mother was, in person,
the Adi Shakti of Mahalakshmi Herself.
It is She whom He called the Holy Ghost.
But at that time He did not speak of the Holy Ghost, and for this reason:
He did not reveal His mother to the world
as the Holy Ghost or as any Goddess. Because if the wicked
rakshasas of that time had come to know that
she is the Holy Ghost, they would have gone after her. And had such a situation
arisen, then Jesus Christ Himself would have become so enraged that He would have
taken up all the powers of destruction that He has and laid
everything utterly to waste. Jesus Christ
has eleven Rudras, meaning eleven powers of destruction.
They are the eleven destructive powers upon our forehead.
These eleven destructive powers —
when the Incarnation of Kalki comes,
about which I am going to tell you tomorrow —
will then completely carry out whatever work
of destruction is to be done in this world.
These eleven destructive powers of His are seated in our forehead.
Among them, one power is that of Shri
Hanumana, and one power is that of Shri Bhairavanatha,
who are called Gabriel and Michael in the Bible.
Even if you say it in English,
you can still awaken that power through the mantra.
Or whether you say it in Hindi or in Sanskrit,
that power can still be awakened within you.
That is to say, on your right side, the Pingala nadi, the Hanumana power flows.
When your right side is not working and there is trouble in it,
then one has to take the name of Hanumana.
At that time, even if you take the name of Gabriel,
that power still begins to work.
As for the power on the left side, there the power of
Saint Michael — or the one whom we call Shri Bhairavanatha — flows.
If you wish to set the left side working, then you have to take the support
of Shri Bhairavanatha. Even if you take the name of Saint Michael,
you can still set this power working.
Or you can test it through the mantra;
you can verify for yourself whether what I am saying is correct or not.
In this way you can understand that those
who consider themselves Christians, or Hindus,
or Muslims, and quarrel among themselves
over worthless matters, are utterly foolish. Because,
having grown upon one and the same tree,
all these are relatives of one another.
Jesus Christ has said that "those who
are not against me are with me."
All of this is speaking of those deities who reside upon our various chakras.
They are all relatives of one another. It is only
our own relationship that does not connect with them.
So we cling to each one separately — just as you would pluck a flower off a tree,
draw out its living essence,
and then go on fighting among ourselves holding those dead flowers.
This is the kind of state we are in.
You will be surprised to know that in Sahaja Yoga the awakening of the Kundalini
depends very much upon the Agnya chakra.
Most of the people who
are moving about in the world these days
carry a heavy stamp of ego upon them, because, by and large,
we get caught up in our activities through the ego. It is the ego that pushes
us into something,
and it is to feed that very ego that we have gone on doing whatever we have done.
So if this ego is to be set right, we have to
remember Lord Jesus Christ.
When I apply sindoor to each one of you here, you will be surprised
to know that it is the very chakra of Lord Jesus Christ that I am moving,
the very chakra that I am awakening.
This tika that you see on My forehead is the tika of His very blood;
it is the symbol of it. That is why this red colour carries such great significance.
In this blood lies that symbol
which showed that God gave His only begotten Son to this world,
and you drenched Him in blood.
It is His sign, so that you may repent, and feel
sorrow over your foolishness and over your wickedness,
and reflect upon it: what is this that we have done?
We think that Shri Mataji has applied sindoor, or that we have applied sindoor,
so it must be some sign of the Hindus.
But if you read about John's Revelation in the Bible,
you will understand, for it is written there
that this mark will remain upon those people
when Kalki comes, mounted upon a white horse, carrying these eleven Rudras.
They did not write down the name of Kalki;
they said that He will have His very own name,
and that He alone will know it.
But when He comes upon the white horse, then they
will come to know whose mark is upon your forehead.
By that mark they will recognize who this is.
There is even a great deal said about Me in it
— in what manner Sahaja Yoga will come about, and in what manner people
will receive it, and in what manner the
Holy Ghost Himself will come and grant these people their realization.
Because the Incarnation of Jesus Christ took place before us,
He has spoken about this matter in the most elaborate detail.
Just as Mohammed Sahib explained, in a very
elaborate manner, the awakening of the Kundalini
and the warding off of evil forces and so on, describing their
workings; in the very same way Jesus Christ explained, in a
very simple manner, what the weapon of a human being
is. According to Him, the greatest weapon of a human being is to forgive.
That which works invisibly in the principle of Shri
Ganesha, the same thing comes into the human principle and works in the form
of forgiveness. Forgiveness is in truth a very great weapon, by
which a human being is saved from his own ego.
Suppose someone has given you great sorrow, or insulted you, or troubled you,
or caused you harm — then your ego is wounded by it.
At that moment, if you hold any such feeling in your mind towards him,
or if you keep thinking in this way,
that this man did such an injustice to me,
and you go on dwelling on him day and night,
then by such useless brooding you will suffer a great deal,
and the whole time that man will remain active within you.
Even though he may have forgotten the whole
thing, and it may have left no effect upon him at all,
you, by remembering that matter, will go on making
yourself miserable again and again, and you will go on playing
into his hands. And when we say, forgive everyone — to forgive
everyone is the supreme instrument of a human being
— then what is it that we actually do? This too is a very great
falsehood, that we forgive — so what is it that we do?
It is a myth. What do we do? You have told someone,
"I have forgiven you" — what have you done?
You have done nothing. You have only saved your own self, from the
trouble of the other and from brooding upon the other.
As long as you keep dwelling painfully upon
that man, you yourself will remain miserable.
Therefore, forgiveness is for us a very simple and straightforward instrument,
by which we save ourselves from the torments of others.
This very great instrument lies within Jesus Christ.
Jesus Christ possesses those powers — as I have told you
— within whom the eleven Rudras reside.
And yet He hung Himself upon the cross,
He let Himself be hung upon it.
Why did He hang Himself upon the cross, when He had all the powers?
He could have slain everyone and could have shattered everyone to pieces.
And right there, where the Adi Shakti, His own
Mother, stood weeping beside Him — she could not bear
it, because, after all, she was in a human birth. She could not bear it,
that even though all the powers reside within me,
these people are crucifying my child
upon the cross, and that today I must stand here to witness this drama.
The truth of the matter is
that such people neither
endure any sorrow, nor become entangled in any pleasure; for them it is all
a play and a drama. Coming into this world and mounting the
cross, He showed what great fools these people are
who crucified Him upon the cross.
That is why He used to ride upon a donkey, and the
meaning of this is that His mount was always the donkey.
The direct corollary of this is that when you have a pain in your head,
when there is very great trouble, very great suffering,
then you should say, "I have forgiven everyone."
Do not take any medicine, do not apply any treatment to it. Only say this,
that all the people in the world, however many there are,
who have tormented me or who go on tormenting me to this day —
I have forgiven them all. You will see,
your headache will go away. Especially
for the Sahaja Yogis, who are
kindled by this Kundalini Shakti,
the work happens so quickly — because within you,
Jesus Christ, who is the very embodiment of forgiveness, has been awakened.
Now see where His place is — it is upon the Agnya chakra. The Agnya chakra within us
is at the optic chiasma,
the place where the two nerves of our eyes cross each other;
and there, in that very centre, is a point. It is so
subtle even now that the doctors have not been able to see it. But there is
an extremely subtle door at that place.
That is why He said, "I am the door." This door is so
exceedingly subtle that, in order to pass through it from within,
a personality like Jesus Christ has to come into this world and pass through it.
Because of our ego, we killed Him —
because we could not bear that a human being should come as God.
When some human being says, "I am God," man cannot tolerate it, and that is why
he killed Him. What wrong had He done?
He did good to people the world over,
He taught the whole world good things,
He taught everyone to live with discipline,
to live well, to put your life in proper order.
He kept to the language of love,
and we gave Him malice and suffering and troubles.
But those who teach you filthy things and lead you into sinful deeds, and tell you
to go on doing wicked things — that the more you do them, the
better you will become — such people who make fools of you,
we read their books day and night and keep going to their feet.
You have seen it today — in these times the gurus we follow
are each more cunning and brazen than the other — are they not?
For them we squander our money, for them we are ready to do anything in the world.
And if some such true man comes and stands before us, we crucify him.
To give such utterly foolish, egotistical people a very great lesson,
to give them a mighty teaching,
the Almighty God Himself sent His only begotten son into this world,
and you nailed Him to the cross.
Just look at these specimens of your intelligence —
what marvels you have achieved! And in this very way you have
done it every single time.
Whenever any Incarnation came before, man went on doing exactly the same thing,
and always ran away from the Truth — he kept clinging to
what merely seemed good and
kept fleeing from the True. Today I hear that people go to Shirdi a great deal.
Although Sainath has now departed from there,
and they have made the place so filthy —
even so, people keep going to Shirdi.
They go to Shirdi precisely because
Sainath is not present here today.
When the Sainath of Shirdi was alive, He had nothing to eat.
Today everyone will go to Shirdi. Why? Because now that He is dead,
all is well. Because now the Sainath of Shirdi
has become tied around our necks!
"Our" Sainath of Shirdi — since when did He become yours?
This is the utter foolishness of man — to run after the one who has died.
It was for this very foolishness and this
very ego that Jesus Christ sacrificed Himself.
And even today man goes on running — leaving aside the one who is before him,
who is the living proof.
And he runs after such a one who has died, who is
finished, and whose place today is somewhere else.
You have seen that many of the devotees of
Shirdi who came here were asked to put the question —
"Shri Mataji, are You Shirdinath?" —
and the vibrations came within them. It is quite true.
Whenever any Incarnation came, if you had asked
the question, you would have received the answer.
But you went on sitting with the one of the past
who had died, and you went along leaning on him.
Because he is not alive today, it suits us well to have him in our hands.
For instance, I told you the story of Gyaneshwara — that here a very grand
temple of Gyaneshwara has been built.
I said, "Let us do contemplation here."
They said, "No, sir, here you must do the dindi,
here you must dance." I said, "Did he do that?
This idol that you have set up here before you — what did he do?"
Then they began to say, "His case was different; he was someone special."
I said, "And you — born only for the dindi? He told you to contemplate
even throughout this whole life,
he told you to attain God.
The cause, the root cause of ignorance, is that there
is no light within you — it is for this that he spoke;
do that. Why should you do this?"
"No, no, Mataji, what You say is right, but this cannot be done here."
I said, "If he were here today, I would speak with
him — what is there for me to speak with you about?
What a place I have come into,
ending up with you." They did not let us contemplate, nor let us teach meditation,
nor do anything — "only do this."
So why does a human being cling to what is gone, to the past?
Because of his ego. Because through it his ego is doubled —
"Brother, I am the disciple of so-and-so, of such-and-such."
But if you will not accept the living proof
that stands right here before you,
then how is your hunger ever going to be satisfied? What fulfilment is ever
going to come to you? Just think about this —
sometimes one should think of one's own interest,
one should think of one's own welfare.
The Ganga is flowing here today, and you have gone off to sit somewhere
where there is no Ganga, to fetch water from
where the Ganga is not — and you say, "Brother,
I am sitting in the Ganga." This
is the kind of talk you make.
The living proof that stands before you today — accept it.
The very same situation
arose in the time of Jesus Christ.
He made many attempts at Kundalini awakening,
but they remained so unsuccessful that He cured only twenty-one people in all —
whereas now, in Sahaja Yoga, thousands of people are being cured.
He could have cured thousands, but the disciples He had were also great donkeys,
also good for nothing. Those people only thought
that Jesus Christ is a man who cures everything
and does this healing — so, "Come, bring this one to Him too,
bring that one to Him as well." He said, "Brother, no more than this." When they
saw Him walking upon the water — because He is the Pranava, the Omkara,
that is why He could walk upon the water,
and the Kundalini too is the Omkara itself —
even when they saw Him walking on the water,
these people still did not believe in Him. With great difficulty
He had gathered together barely twelve fishermen. And what else could He do?
You hardly find anyone simpler than fishermen.
Just look at our own group here. In those days,
twelve fishermen were found only with the greatest difficulty.
Nowadays, if you tried to explain the Kundalini to fishermen — how on earth!
So you too can understand what those times
were like — who was there to speak with Him?
Nowadays people have become extremely
intelligent; in those days they were of a very low order.
Somehow He explained it to them, He told
them, yet they were not the kind to understand.
All they wanted was, "You set this one right, set that one right."
Just as it happens in our Sahaja Yoga too — the moment some
person is given realization, at once he will say, "Mother,
look, I have a sister, her husband has got such-and-such, will You cure him?"
Then he comes back having taken a list of
every sick person in the whole village.
Why? Because now they have become our agents.
Now they have taken up the agency. These too are all problems of the ego —
all of them are problems of the ego.
A human being should understand that
the ego is something very subtle.
Now, the other way is that you fight your own ego. That way too is not right.
By fighting the ego, you can never get anywhere.
The ego has to be absorbed within of its own accord.
When your attention, seated upon the Kundalini, piercing the Brahmarandhra,
merges into that Virata,
then the ego becomes a very part of that Virata. The ego that is in
you people is false. What do you do? Ask
yourselves — what do you do in this world?
Why, you take some dead thing and give it another form —
what great work is this that you do?
Can you make a fruit out of a flower? First ask the question of yourself.
This nose, this mouth, this whole beautiful body and all
else that you have been given — how did you come by it?
You became a human being from an amoeba — how did that happen?
With what beauty, without your even being aware of it, you were given all this.
It is the infinite, boundless grace of God that He created
you and gave you this human form, this human embodiment.
Towards Him, what can a human being give but gratitude?
Towards Him, what indeed can a human being give but reverence? What have you been
doing till this day? What living work have you ever done?
Take a test-tube baby — taking a living thing from somewhere,
somehow nurturing and rearing that
living thing and bringing it
up — and over that the human being has become so full of ego! And that too —
he who did not bring the living quality into being in the first place —
he merely took the living quality from somewhere,
just as we do a crossing, and crossed it in that way. How much ego the human
being has acquired! He reached the moon,
and how much ego he acquired! Before the One who made thousands
of universes like this moon and this sun and
set them in their places, what is your ego anyway?
Your ego is false, but His ego is true.
That great Ego — "Aham karoti," meaning,
He exists, and it is He alone who does.
This is something I sometimes say in jest — that some people
travelling in an aeroplane took their
luggage up onto their own heads.
People asked them, "Why have you put the luggage on your heads?"
And they said, "We are lightening the load of this aeroplane a little."
Your ego is just like that.
The ego you have is false.
You do nothing at all.
To this day you have done nothing at all.
Whatever you have done is all distorted.
Let Him do it who is the One to do it and who really does it.
You are only the instrument within His hands.
Just as this instrument stands here before
Me today — it does nothing, this you know.
It is I who am speaking, I am speaking, and
this one only stands in between as a witness.
He is being drawn along by this energy.
In the very same way, you too are an instrument of God. He has made you.
Let His power flow through you, and put your meaning, your purpose, to use.
And therefore, to put this meaning to use, upon the
Agnya chakra — which is the most difficult chakra, the subtlest principle,
that of the Omkara, of the Pranava —
that very One descended in person into this world,
and that very One in person is Shri Jesus Christ.
Now the Kundalini has a relationship with
this just as the moon has with its moonlight,
or the sun with its sun-rays.
The Kundalini, by her own power — Gauri, by her own power, created Shri Ganesha.
By her own strength of mind, by her own
penance, by her own merit, she made Him into Ganesha.
When Ganesha had come to the stage where He could take incarnation,
then Jesus Christ was born.
Now the people in England raise a great deal
of argument about how He could have been born
in this way — what they call divine conception —
how can this be possible? I say,
how little do these human beings understand,
how little of all this do they really grasp!
Do they ever even stop to think how a sprout breaks forth from a seed?
How do you breathe? How does your movement,
your functioning take place? Where does the energy in
your brain come from? In what manner have you come into this world?
Have you ever diagnosed any of this?
You say that within the earth,
in the depths of the ground,
there is the force of gravity.
But just consider for a moment — where did it come from?
Just as little children might suddenly imagine themselves to be Shivaji,
in the same way these notions of human beings seem to me rather childish.
This power that seems to you to be active and working within yourselves —
all this is maya, all this is illusion.
You have not yet known the Truth;
you will have to break through this illusion.
Until this illusion of yours is broken, you will
go on accepting this very illusion as the Truth.
And this is the great illusion within you — that it
is you yourselves who are carrying out all the work.
And to break this illusion, it was necessary to bring a human form into the world.
For whenever, in this world, a human being or
any other living creature has tried to take a step towards evolution,
at that very time the Incarnations have come into the world.
You yourselves know that Vishnu took His Incarnation, and coming
into the world as Shri Rama He
wandered from forest to forest,
and to make you understand, to bring a new dimension into your awareness —
to show what an ideal king is like — He staged such a great drama.
In the same way was the life of Shri Krishna, and in the same way
is the life of Jesus Christ.
But throughout the whole of their lives, if
you look closely, only one thing stands out
— and that is your foolishness, your supreme folly.
Because of which you sent so great
a principle to the cross.
That is, the foolishness was exposed to such an extent,
so tremendous was the folly that came to light, that
at that time it was even said that if, in His place —
if there is a thief, let the thief be crucified
instead — that either the thief should be released or He.
So these Jews, who today consider themselves to be so very clever, they said, "No,
give Jesus Christ to the cross."
Today you know what the condition of these Jews
is, in what wretchedness they have been trapped.
So great a sin have they committed from
time immemorial — can it ever be washed away?
Even now people remain caught in that very ego, caught in that very same ego,
and even now they still think that the sinful deeds and the things they have done
were some great act of merit. Even now,
if they were to ask forgiveness from God —
saying that we crucified Your very principle,
we destroyed that great principle which was Yours, O Lord, forgive us —
even now they could be forgiven. But for a human
being, to ask for forgiveness is a very difficult thing. He goes on committing one
wickedness after another.
Who is there in this world who can say that they welcomed the saints?
Look at Nanak Sahib — how terribly he was
tormented; look at Kabir — how he was persecuted.
No great person of this world has ever departed
without suffering at the hands of this world,
and those who inflict that suffering are human beings.
But now the world has changed, I am telling you. The Satya Yuga has begun.
You may try and see for yourselves — now no one
can inflict suffering upon any saint or sage.
Enough has happened; now that is not going to go on any longer.
The reason is that Jesus Christ has
set in motion a very great power into the
world, so that now any wicked person, any tormentor,
may be taught a lesson. His Ekadasha Rudras have today become fully armed and ready.
And whoever tries to torment any saint or sage will be utterly destroyed.
To try to torment any saint or sage — this is a great sin. This you must understand,
and from the example of Jesus Christ you must learn,
so that we do not commit this folly again.
If we commit this folly, then we will have failed, and we will be finished forever.
Now, if any man calls himself an Incarnation, he
should not be accepted as an Incarnation — this is certain. If every single man says
"I am an Incarnation, I am an Incarnation," he
must not be believed. In our own scriptures the criteria are laid down;
looking at those criteria, if that Incarnation is proved genuine,
then he should be accepted.
Someone brought me the news that Jesus Christ had been born again.
I said, "Oh really, where did this happen?" They said, "He is in Rome."
I said, "I see, and what does he do?" They said, "He says, 'I am Jesus Christ.'"
So I said, "In that way even a donkey can say so.
Saying so hardly makes him Jesus Christ." They said,
"What is the mark of Jesus Christ?"
I said, "Tell him to walk on water.
Tell him now to stop the wind, the water, the storm.
If he can stop them, and if he can walk on
water, and if he can bring the dead back to life, then he is Jesus Christ.
If he cannot do this, then he is not Jesus Christ."
Then they said that this man does not do any such thing at all.
Later it came to be known that he ran away
after taking a great deal of money from people.
The greatest lesson we can learn from the life of Jesus Christ is this:
that you remain just as you have been placed.
Jesus Christ never changed His profession.
He did not go about advertising to
the world that "I am a renunciate." He even went to a wedding.
He went to the wedding, and once there He arranged everything.
Now, regarding that wedding it is written that He made wine from water.
And human beings have seized upon this point, saying, "Why, the man made liquor!"
The meaning of "wine" — even today if you go to Israel,
or in the Hebrew language —
is the juice of the grape; it is not liquor.
It was only later that someone's clever mind got to
work, thinking it should be fermented and made into liquor.
And regarding this, if you read the life of
Moses, then Moses has said in very clear words
that alcohol and strong substances
of this kind should not be taken by human beings at all.
The reason is what I told you the other day
in connection with the Guru principle —
that Moses is a very great Guru principle.
All those who have been Gurus —
because their work is upon the Nabhi chakra
and they reside around the Nabhi,
in the place where the Void is they dwell, and because that has its effect
upon the liver —
that is why every Guru, whether it be Nanak, or whether it be Kabir,
or whether it be your Moses, Abraham, or Socrates,
all of them forbade liquor.
Because this is their principle. Each one does the work
that is his to do. The work of the Gurus is to establish you in
Dharma, and that is why they forbade liquor.
And those whose work is different — as, for instance, the work of Jesus Christ,
which was to open your Agnya chakra, to break your ego — that work He performed.
The work that is mine, I have to do: to awaken
your Kundalini and to break open your Kundalini into the Sahasrara.
But because this is the work of integration, of the whole,
I have to speak about every one of them.
I have to speak about Jesus Christ, I have to
speak about Nanak, I have to speak about Janaka,
and in the same way I have to speak about Rama, Krishna, and so on
— about all the Incarnations that have ever come into the world —
and about Shiva and the rest, all the powers
that are within us; I have to speak about them all.
Because today is the time of completeness, of wholeness, and so
it is of this wholeness that we must speak. Yet even in this, you will see —
and you will be surprised — that Sahaja Yoga is found mostly in the cities;
in the villages it is not so.
It is in the cities that it spreads, slowly, little by little. For to find the Truth
and to receive the Truth is not within the
power of the human being. This you have seen
from history itself. And even today,
where is the human being going to change? He is in the very
same condition. The only difference is that the human being of today is so
scattered, so distracted and absent-minded, as he has never been before.
And this is why it was said that this work would come to pass only in the Kali Yuga.
In the tale of Nala and Damayanti, once Nala caught Kali, and Kali said, "Brother,
if you wish to kill me, then kill me;
but first hear my glory, hear my greatness.
There is a special power in me — hear it."
So Nala asked, "What is your greatness, Kali?"
Kali replied: "My greatness is that the
great saints and ascetics in the mountain caves
will attain this realization in very great numbers;
and all the justice, all the judgement, will take place in the Kali Yuga."
Sahaja Yoga itself is this last judgement;
this is what the Bible calls the last judgement of the Truth.
It is only after coming into Sahaja Yoga that you
are judged — whether you stand firm upon it or not.
But one must remain steady upon it, or he will be sold away.
For even after attaining the Truth, it is
difficult for the human being to hold fast to it.
Many people ask me, "Mother, when did we become steady?"
This is just like asking: you have come out of the water and stepped into the boat.
Well, when did you become steady?
When you felt that you had become steady. When you are riding a bicycle,
at the very beginning you wobble —
so when did you become steady? When you felt that you had become steady.
This is for you yourself to judge — whether you have become steady or not.
And when you become steady, Nirvikalpa becomes established within you.
Until the moment our Kundalini descends below the Agnya chakra,
we cannot come into thoughtlessness. That first abode of Samadhi —
Nirvichara, thoughtless awareness — does not become established.
As soon as the Kundalini crosses over this Agnya chakra — that is,
through the door which Shri Jesus Christ opened for
us, where it is by taking the very name of Shri Jesus Christ,
by saying His Lord's Prayer, that the Agnya chakra opens — and after it has opened,
we enter into the realm of thoughtless
awareness, into what we may call the destination,
the Kingdom of God, which is the limbic area in our brain,
in which all these seven chakras and the sub-chakras as well are seated.
Until the human being reaches that state,
thoughtless awareness too does not
become established within him.
The greatest cause of the Agnya chakra going out of order is the eyes.
The human being must guard his eyes very carefully.
The eye is a tremendously important thing.
The bowing of the forehead — this is why Shri Jesus
Christ said, "Do not bow your forehead before anyone."
Because to bow your forehead before just anyone means
that you do not know before whom you are about to lose all that you have earned;
you do not know before what thief you may be bowing
down your forehead. This is why He said,
"Do not bow your forehead before anyone."
You know that in Sahaja Yoga too, I always say: since I have given you nothing,
why do you come to My Feet?
But here in our Maharashtra especially, there is a great
malady of seeking darshan. And just try telling people otherwise.
Once we went to a certain village where
there were about five or six thousand people.
So I said, "Baba, if so many people come to the Feet, it will take a very long time.
So do not come to the Feet,
do not take this darshan."
And everyone became sulky —
"Mataji, why have You become displeased with us?
Why are You not letting us come to Your Feet?"
One should bow one's forehead only before that person
who is the very representative of God Himself. One should not bow one's
forehead before just any worthless, good-for-nothing person.
This is a very important matter. The moment you bow your
forehead in the wrong place,
your forehead is turned the wrong way.
And it is for this reason, you know, that most
people nowadays have a spoiled Agnya chakra.
If your forehead has not bowed before the great teachers,
has not bowed before great souls, but instead has bowed
in a place where there are wrong people,
where there is some false guru, then the Agnya chakra becomes spoiled.
Of all the diseases that afflict the eyes, very many of them arise for this reason —
because we do not look after the principle of our Agnya chakra.
The main principle of the Agnya chakra is that the
human being should read only the most pure things.
Whatever is impure should not be read.
People say, "What is the harm in it? We went
there; now we have to talk with all sorts of people,
our line of work is such" — but then your eyes too will be spoiled.
Why do you read the very things that spoil your eyes?
By looking at wrong people too, your eyes become spoiled.
Yesterday I told you that Shri
Jesus Christ said one thing —
He said to you, "Thou shalt not commit adultery, but I tell you,
thou shalt not have adulterous eyes." He said this with great emphasis:
that if there is adultery in your eye, then your eyes will grow weak.
This does not mean that if you wear spectacles you are a wrong person.
After a certain age one has to wear spectacles anyway; that is simply a law of life.
But there are very many causes for the eyes being spoiled, and this is one of them.
Now there are many people whose attention
is utterly distracted all the time, running about this way and that;
they cannot keep their eyes steady even
for a single minute, the whole time the eyes keep
darting here and there. And they themselves do not even
realize why they are rolling their eyes about —
again and again they will look this way and that.
God alone knows what they are looking at.
The greatest effect upon the eyes comes from the way in which you work.
Suppose you over-work, you are extremely
engrossed in your work, you do it to excess.
Even though you may be doing good work — not bad work, not impure work —
though it is not exactly impure and not exactly pure either, it is a kind of neutral
work that you are doing. But even so,
if you work a great deal, if you read a great deal,
if you sew a great deal, if you read aloud and recite a great deal,
and if you think a great deal,
then too your eyes become spoilt.
The reason for this is that when you work to excess, you forget God.
Your devotion to God, your communion with Him,
is no longer settled within you.
You forget Jesus Christ.
He was not educated; He had not read even a
single letter, He never went to any school,
He never went to any college, nor had He ever seen any teacher.
Yet today universities have been opened in His name,
great theological colleges have been built in His name,
and there, by making themselves professors in those
theological colleges, people have built great big churches.
And in those very churches all this goes on
— to my mind, all of them ought to be called
jokers; to me they seem nothing but jokers.
Because a man who is a graduate of God is all right, but those who have done no
such graduation at all, who have received no initiation whatsoever from God,
set up all their grand pomp and show among themselves and think, "Ah,
how great we are!" and they walk about so very seriously.
These are great foolish jokers. When you
have not yet even received Self-realization, when not even the line of true
knowledge has yet appeared within you,
when not even the light has yet come within you,
then why do you carry on this kind of pretence and humbug?
You go about putting on airs as though you were some very great saint.
And there are elections held in it.
You have just been reading about the election of the Pope.
When one sees all the pretence and humbug that goes on in this world,
a human being like me feels: O God,
will they ever be able to understand Jesus Christ or not?
First they crucified Him, and now today they are making a mockery of Him,
they are turning Him into a farce.
Among us too there are many such men who
go about posing as Shankaracharyas — among us too there are
these great big ones. Nowadays I have heard that
one Shankaracharya is having
a golden crown made for himself and an enormous golden
ceremonial umbrella made,
because he thought that since the Pope has one, we ought to have one too.
May such an umbrella fall upon his head with such a thud
that all these Shankaracharyas will be put in their place!
The original Adi Shankaracharya did not have
even enough money to cremate his own mother's body,
and today these Shankaracharyas are piling up their properties, hoarding up money.
And we, who consider ourselves so very clever, and
who have been initiated by such a Shankaracharya —
today we are the ones filling the bellies of these people.
Tell me, where does Kundalini come into all this?
The Kundalini is something utterly pure and true.
It is not humbug or the running of some shop; it is the absolute Truth.
And you cannot gauge this Truth until you yourself descend into the Truth.
You cannot measure it from the outside.
To attain it, you yourself will have to achieve identity with the Truth,
you will have to bring about oneness with the Truth.
When you become one with the Truth, then you
will know that this is the supreme Truth — that you
are an instrument of that Supreme Father, that God
Almighty, through whom this energy is going to flow.
And from within this you are an instrument of
that energy, of that power, of that power of love, through whom the power
of love is going to be transmitted throughout
the whole world. But how great is the sacrifice
of Jesus Christ in this, by which He opened our Agnya chakra for us!
If the Agnya chakra is not all right, the Kundalini will simply not rise.
If a person's Agnya chakra is caught, then
his Mooladhara is bound to be caught as well,
and that Kundalini will simply not rise.
If the Agnya chakra is caught, then that Kundalini will not rise by any means.
When there is a catch on the Agnya chakra, then for that we apply sindoor upon it,
we apply kumkum. People ask me, "Mother,
why do You apply kumkum?" Especially abroad people say, "Why,
You are turning us all into Hindus."
I said, I am turning everyone into Christians. This is the very blood of
Jesus Christ that I am applying to everyone,
so that you may remember Him, by which your ego may be removed
and all your afflictions may be taken away.
It is only when that sindoor is applied that
the Agnya chakra opens and the Kundalini goes up.
Such is the connection between the Kundalini and this great Incarnation.
Because Shri Sakshat Ganesha, who sits at one station guarding His own chastity,
He Himself comes upon the Agnya chakra and opens its passage and opens the door.
What should we do for this chakra?
What should we do to set this chakra right?
For this there are many ways. As I have said,
one should improve one's manner of working. For a man who works
far too much — you know that he develops a disease like diabetes,
by which the eyes too become very weak.
One should reform one's manner of working a little.
Of course one must work, but there is so much
imbalance in society that one poor
man works himself to death,
while another man does no work at all.
This imbalance cannot be set right by God; it is human
beings who can set it right — that everyone should work, so that all may share
the burden of the work. It should not be that one man's eyes give out,
that he becomes utterly weak,
that he gets diabetes, that he dies at a very early age,
that he gets a heart attack, while other men lie about in sheer idleness.
Therefore this balance of society
must come into the human being,
and the human being must understand that through any
one excess whatsoever, society itself becomes corrupted.
Therefore it is not fitting that you should remain in any such excess.
Improving your manner of working means that you
should also relax your eyes for a little while.
And for that there are many arrangements in
Sahaja Yoga — how the eyes are to be relaxed,
how one bathes one's eyes in light and in the sun. First, of course,
realization must definitely take place;
after that, we can learn how we may set our eyes right,
how we may take the burden off them, how we may relax them.
There are many such methods by which you can put your eyes right,
and by which you can also keep your Agnya chakra in good order.
But the very best thing is that you keep an eye upon your own ego and talk to it.
Say to it, "Well now, so you have got into your ego?
Now, Your Majesty, where are you off to? What is on your mind?
What do you want to do in your ego?"
In this way go on addressing your own self.
Look at yourself in the mirror and say,
"Well, well, how wonderful you are!
You think yourself a very great man."
If in this way you converse with your ego, then if there is any
pressure on the eyes because of the ego,
that too will be removed. Now the other side, the back side of the Agnya chakra,
which we may call the hinder part of Jesus Christ, or which is called Mahaganesha.
For when Shri Ganesha became Mahaganesha, then He came
as Jesus Christ; and Jesus Christ is in the very centre,
and around Him these eleven Rudras
are under His dominion.
These eleven Rudras of His — among whom are
Mahaganesha and Shadanana and the others —
these eleven Rudras are all around Him.
Now, the moment you close your eyes
and the Kundalini rises, you cannot see what is happening inside.
But if you keep your eyes open, then for a
minute you may feel that your eyes are dilating, and a sudden darkness
comes before you, because the dilation of the
pupil has taken place. When your Kundalini rises within,
a dilatation of the pupil takes place and the pupils relax, and this is the work of
the parasympathetic. You can observe this even after realization.
If a person's Kundalini has not yet pierced the Brahmarandhra,
and you look at his pupils, they appear very large and very dark.
But once the Kundalini has pierced through,
a certain shine comes into the eyes.
Such a person's eyes are always shining.
Even if he grows old, still his eyes keep shining.
And in this way you can recognize whether a person is realized or not.
How do you recognize the eyes of demons? The eyes of demons were
like a cat's eyes. Whether you have ever seen a cat's eyes or not,
I do not know. But in a cat's eye, that white part — the retina — keeps shrinking,
and the pupil in the middle becomes very tiny and suddenly vanishes altogether.
If a demon allows you to look into his eyes for a little while —
because these demonic people come so well
disguised that you cannot recognize them —
but if you go to many of these
gurus and look into their eyes, you will see this in them:
that within a short while their eyes
suddenly vanish inward. Mostly they avoid your eyes.
But if your eyes do meet theirs, you can see
that, just like a cat's, their eyes suddenly
roll inward in a flash.
This is the way to recognize them. Because the principle
of Jesus Christ is not there. Jesus Christ is not awakened in them.
There, the most loathsome kind of
thoughts and dark plotting go on. And for this reason they
are afraid of you. There will be many such people that if
you touch them they get a short circuit and collapse flat
to the ground. There are many such evil spirits roaming about in this world
who call themselves gurus.
If you go to garland them, they will throw the
garland back at you; they will not let you touch them;
they cannot even wear your garland —
so low is the level of these people,
they get a short circuit.
Now, these are deep matters and subtle matters, which you will understand later.
But what we were just speaking about, regarding
Jesus Christ, is this: that by contemplating on Him,
by thinking of Him, our Agnya chakra can be set right.
But not the kind of contemplation devised by
those who have built such inauspicious systems around Him.
If you look around, they depict Jesus Christ
as thin, frail, sickly — as if, I do not know,
they had picked up some TB patient from somewhere. Is this any way to make a
picture of Jesus Christ? In my view, the painter himself must be sickly like this,
and that is why he makes such pictures of Him
and hangs them up, looking wretched and miserable.
He was extremely strong, He was a very
radiant Personality, and so beautiful to look at,
and there was such brilliance within Him,
and He was a very robust, well-built man.
He was neither very tall nor very short, but a fine man of ordinary height.
A man who could lift such a huge cross with His own hands and carry it —
could He be such a frail, sickly man? The kind of pictures people
make and circulate, whose photographs are sold
all over the world, and people think — wow, wow, wow!
What a picture they have made of Jesus Christ! This is an utter
insult to Him. Only one great artist, by the name of Rubens,
whose home I myself have visited — there I saw the very famous
painting of Jesus Christ called the Ascent
and Descent of Christ — he has brought out this matter very beautifully,
and has portrayed Jesus Christ as an extremely
robust and very joyful being.
Because nowadays, all over the world,
only the bony type — tall, broad-framed,
very lanky girls — are considered beautiful. Absolutely bony!
If small children were to see them,
they would feel like vomiting at the sight.
On top of that she comes wearing heels,
and she gets the first prize in beauty. Extremely tall,
utterly thin and frail, as though she will fall
down or die any moment — and even so she comes walking on heels.
If little children saw her they would say — good heavens!
Who dragged this thing from a spider's web?
But the modern ideas of today have become so
perverted that we have a taste for looking
at such spider's webs.
Because we ourselves are caught in a spider's web,
the spider's webs appeal to us.
What was beauty like in the earlier days — when Leonardo da Vinci lived,
whose painting the whole world reveres today.
Look at the painting of the Mona Lisa —
a robust, well-built woman.
There is the utmost grace within her, and the atmosphere about her is utterly pure.
And the whole world will come to see her,
yet when they give the first prize, it goes to these six-foot-seven women
who come walking there wearing such high heels, sickly and frail,
looking as if they died yesterday or will die today —
this is their condition, and people regard this as beauty.
The very imagination of man has been distorted along with his own perversion.
And once we have accepted such people as our ideals,
then day and night women are busy with this one pursuit —
how can we too take on this spider-web, skeletal condition? And
for that they will toil, and run about, and do all these things.
In reality, such women are a great headache.
The man into whose lap one of them falls comes to know it well.
There is no sweetness in them, no tenderness of any kind,
no capacity to bear with anything,
nor can they give love to their children.
But such perverted ideas enter into us,
and by constantly looking at such women, the sense of beauty within us
becomes so utterly corrupted.
Now it may seem to you that Mataji is talking of very old, outdated things,
but what I am telling you are eternal truths —
that you cast an impure glance upon every woman on the road.
Even upon a single woman,
this is a great sin. So think how many sinful deeds you commit
day and night walking along the street. I am telling you in
the relationship of a Mother that you should give
up all these pursuits. These are all worthless
things. There is no gain whatsoever in doing all this.
Jesus Christ told it two thousand years ago,
but today I am saying that the poor
One could not explain it so openly. Whatever He said,
He said with great force. But you took Him up and put Him upon the cross.
For one thing, you cannot crucify me — that is the first point; and secondly,
I am clever enough that I will tell you in such
a way that it will get right into your skull.
Because He had not explained what happens when you do this deed.
He only said — do not do this, it is a filthy thing.
Adulterous eyes are very, very much against your being.
But He did not say what happens by keeping adulterous eyes,
what its evil consequences are.
Day and night this very thought runs about in our minds.
And by doing this, what will you save yourself from?
Are you a human being at all?
You will become worse than an animal, worse even than the beasts.
That is why in our Yoga Shastra it is said that one must
restrain the tendencies of one's attention — check it,
check it, keep it upon the right path. One should keep it bowed
in humility before God, and one should walk in that direction.
We are built upon Yoga; ours is the land of Yoga.
We are not egoists, nor are we meant to be. Those who wish to make
themselves egoists may take their immigration
and go off to England. They have no need to live here,
and no need to spoil this country either.
We are not to indulge in egoism.
We are to live here in the manner of the Land of Yoga.
And a day will come when
we shall attain our Yoga,
and when we receive the fruit of our holy
land, then the whole world will be at your feet. On that day they will know where
Jesus Christ truly belonged, and on that day they
will know where Jesus Christ has actually been received and honoured.
Even today, in our land of India, woman is held in
great respect; the womankind is held in great respect.
Even today the mother is regarded as a
mother and the sister is regarded as a sister.
They will come here and understand that Jesus Christ
is most honoured and most followed in this country,
and not in those countries that go about calling themselves Christian Nations.
Whatever has to be told to you is so very much that — as you know —
I have said that a book of five hundred pages has been written,
and in it this boy sent I do not know how many pages on Jesus Christ.
Because he was a Catholic by community, he has given a good deal of thought to that.
And he himself had earlier gone off somewhere to become a priest.
And in this way he made a great investigation into all these matters.
And when he understood that Jesus Christ dwells
within our very own selves and is within us —
And until we are reborn... Jesus Christ has said that you have to be born again.
This second birth comes only through the path of the Kundalini.
And until the Kundalini is awakened, you cannot be born again.
Until your second birth takes place, you will not know God. Read the Bible afresh —
read it after you have got your realization —
and you will be amazed that in all of it
Jesus Christ has done nothing but sing the glory of Sahaja Yoga.
Each and every word of His is such that we take it to heart.
But those who have no eyes cannot understand it.
They even mock at it and speak false things about it.
Now here He said a profound thing — that I am
the path, I am the door, that I am the door,
I am the path. The meaning of this is that He
is the path and He is the door — quite right,
for the path passes through the door.
Now the meaning given to it became that He is the only one — they clung to that,
that after Him there can be no one else. And who are these people who
depend on that idea? These people who have set themselves
up as clowns posing as Christians.
Any man comes along and gives you baptism.
To give baptism is in fact
to break open your Sahasrara.
To break open the Sahasrara and to draw the Kundalini out
through it and grant realization — that alone is baptism.
That is to say, the very final act of the Kundalini is baptism.
And these people who keep giving you baptism in the church —
what authority do they have to give baptism?
They are merely attempting something to which they have no right.
And otherwise, they have now started philanthropic work.
Philanthropic work — well, come on, brother, serve the poor, serve them.
Now you will say — Mataji, but this is a good work.
It is good, yes, but this is not God's work, this is man's work.
You made them poor, you made them miserable,
and now you are to set them right?
God's work is not to go and serve the poor, and first to manufacture poverty
and then to serve the poor.
God's work is to take you into the Kingdom of God,
to unite you with God; to fill you completely
with His joy, His grace, His peace, His splendour. That is God's work.
It is not that a man steals, cheats, tells lies, and roams about all over
the world crying 'I am poor, I am poor,' and you go and kiss his feet.
This philanthropic work is the work of human beings,
and we must understand this fully and completely.
I asked, "Tell me, are these Christian people doing any philanthropic work?"
Wherever they went, they went only to make people Christians.
Wherever tribal people were sitting,
they reached there to do philanthropic work
— and they make everyone a Christian.
Whatever you turn a donkey into —
make him a Christian or make him a Muslim —
the donkey will still remain a donkey.
Just by changing that label on him,
do you think it is going to make any difference?
But these fools think that through this their democracy grows.
These people have turned it into politics.
Whatever it may be, ask them directly —
why do you do philanthropy?
And the quotation from the Bible that they gave in answer is very amusing,
and when you see it you will realize how foolish those people were.
They said that Mary Magdalene bought an oil — a very expensive oil —
and she brought it,
and she began to say to Jesus Christ that "I wish to anoint Your body with this."
Then Judas said, "Brother, why are you wasting such expensive oil on His body?
It could be sold and given to the poor.
He was the philanthropic one!
And it was he who, in the end, had Jesus Christ handed over.
And even those thirty pieces of silver that he
received, those too he distributed among the poor.
It is just like the way so many people do
black marketing — they do black marketing here —
and then they go and stand before the
temple and distribute loaves of bread,
or they go and give money to some sadhu or baba.
And in this way they console their own soul —
"Well, brother, we did a little black marketing,
but at least we have also done a little philanthropic work,
a little meritorious deed." In the very same way,
he said that whatever there is,
give it to the poor people — this is what Mr. Judas said.
So Jesus Christ at that moment gave this reply: "These poor are for ever,
but I am for a short time." The meaning is
that this divine life has come for a short time. Look at that,
that is what has importance.
These poor are an everlasting headache anyway.
And about very rich people too He had said that "It is easy for a camel to
pass through the eye of a needle,
but it is an impossibility for a rich man to enter
into the kingdom of God." These two extremes He pointed
out throughout His life. You must put an end to
both of these extremes. And the Christian people —
they are either at this extreme, or at that extreme. Now this philanthropic work —
here too many people, after seeing Him,
set up missions. And the people who come through these
missions do not get realization.
They say, "Mother, we do so much mission work." Yes, do it!
Do it officially, do it privately.
You may call it a public service, it is good for everyone.
Yes, there are many names for it too — call it social work.
But this is not the work of God.
There is no need for any misappropriation.
The work of God flows unobstructed.
Just as people will say, "Mother, You too cure people's illnesses."
We do not really do anything; they get cured by themselves.
We awaken the Kundalini. We are not doing any work of that sort —
that we should go and reach some hospital, take twenty-five sick people
there and cure them. Because it is this love flowing
from within us that cures. Jesus Christ too cured people.
But He did not go and sit there serving at someone's feet.
Human beings must understand this matter completely.
The mistakes that these people have made, you should not make them.
Your work is that you yourself should attain Self-realization.
After attaining Self-realization, all these powers awaken
within you by themselves — meaning you can cure someone's illness.
Among us, many have even cured cancer — it is true! There is no lie in this.
Cancer can be cured only through Sahaja Yoga, and this too is the truth.
Now here, the one who put the garland around My neck —
this lady here cured fifty-odd people.
I said to her, "Stop! Why do you cure them?" Because while doing this,
it then came into her mind that these people are of no use.
After getting cured, they went away.
They do not seek God. For them it is simply
that they should use God only so that their illness gets cured.
They do not have the idea of attaining God.
Why would God cure such bodies too, that are not lamps of God?
Do you repair such lamps that are of no use?
Such lamp-pillars are set up that give light to the whole world.
God too has intelligence. He is not such
that He would go about curing fools like this.
Those human beings who do not have the power to spread the light of God and
to set right the path of God, and to give
something in a special way to people for that
— to such people who do not do this work, no God,
nothing of this kind, wishes to give anything.
Those people who keep themselves on such a wrong
path that "we are doing great big philanthropic work,
we are doing great service to the country"
— just now a gentleman telephoned me saying, "I
had gone there to give relief to people." I said,
"Keep giving just that; that very thing is good for you." Then someone said,
"I had gone to cure someone's eyes." Let them keep doing it —
there is no harm in it. You do it — do it as an official, or do it
as a human being, do it as a social worker.
But this is never the work of God.
You attach every single thing to God.
I have even seen this — Sainath Bidi! There should be some
limit to everything. You used to attach every single thing to God —
Sadhana Soap! Just imagine,
is there no end to it!
And Vishnu-brand asafoetida! Lakshmi-brand
asafoetida! Just imagine!
Have these people made a mockery of God? And what benefit is going
to come to you from this? They say, "Mother,
we do it because it will be auspicious for us." Did
it become auspicious? — "We will earn more money." You are never going to earn it!
If you do your business in this way,
you will face great suffering.
This is an insult to Shri Lakshmi Herself —
that they turned Her into asafoetida!
In the very same way, a human being does many such
things, all of which amount to misappropriation.
And in exactly this way, we have played
this very same game with Jesus Christ as well.
We should understand that Jesus Christ is
neither anyone's property nor anyone's possession.
He came into this world for the redemption
and welfare of all of humankind;
He is the Omkara principle of God. And it was this Omkara principle
that offered itself as a sacrifice —
only He can offer such a sacrifice, no one else. All the other Incarnations
who came afterward — their bodies were made of the earth element,
but His body was made of the Pranava
principle, and that is why His resurrection took place.
Now, after the resurrection had happened, all those who
were His disciples accepted,
"Yes, indeed, He truly was what
He said He was," because they
had seen Him in His bodily form — only then did they believe.
But then who was to come to give them
their realization? Then they set about doing all sorts of odd things — doing
this, doing that, all kinds of things from all over the world —
and people began to shout and scream in the name of Jesus.
When they started all this screaming and shouting, evil spirits entered into them.
And they began to speak in all kinds of languages,
and they have written this down in the Bible.
Now everyone thinks that this very entering of a spirit within oneself is itself
the blessing of the Divine Spirit.